Explicit, scoped, in files override of the merge rules
======================================================

Use cases
---------

 -  allow inherited piecewise *authorized ssh user* merge for
    only a particular *device user*.

    When specified for a particular *state*, would allow a set of users
    to manage the device user's ssh authorizations **only** when the
    device is in a particular state.

 -  allow inherited piecewise *member set* merge for only a particular group.

 -  allow inherited (lhs) pub key to take precedence over that of the user
    with same name in current *auth dir* (rhs).

    Would allow to grant some trusted user to manage / update his own public key
    from another repository. This can furthermore be allowed only on a particular
    *state*.


Issues to be addressed before implementing this
-----------------------------------------------

 -  In particular with *device user*, how will these scoped policies be merged with
    the per state ones?


Will also requires
------------------

 -  Option config to opt in for explicit merge rules overrides.


Some ideas
----------

```bash
{
  "device-users": {
    "": {
      "override": true
    },
    "my-user-a": {
      "inherit": true
    },
    "my-user-b": {
      "inherit": false
    },
    "my-user-c": {
      "override": false
    },
    "my-user-d": {
      "final": true
    }
  }
```

In the previous, the `""` section will completely override any such section.

The `a` user will inherit all authorization from a same same section.

For the `b` user, there will be an error raised if a section of the same
name is found in inherited dir. Otherwise, it will be fine.

Exact same for user `c`.

For user `d`, it will not be possible to override it at all (either through
an extra override or through an extra inherit of this *auth dir* from
another *dir*). An error will be raised if an attempt is made.

These keywords will be part of the auth merge according to the merge priorities.
For example, if the above is for state `s1`, then as soon as in state s1, user
`a` will inherit. If user `a` had `inherit = false` in the *auth always* file,
because of the merge rules, when in state `s1`, auth will be inherited. When not
in state `s1` state won't be inherited and an error will be raised if a user a
is provided through the *extra inherited*  mean.

It might be possible to eventually extend these keywords by using another
type such as string or an attribute set (e.g.: `inherit = "some-specifier"`,
`override = { some-key: "some-value"}`).
