Initial setup
=============

Note that this repository is meant as a *framework* for specific factory and
device configurations. Specific device factories are required to:

 1. Create 4 private [git] repositories of the following kind:

    The `my_` prefix should be replaced by whatever you prefer.

     1. `my_factory_install`: A private *git* repository where factory specific
        knownledge will be stored.

        No devices will ever get access to this repository.

     2. `my_device_config`: A private *git* repository where the device nixos
        configuration will be stored.

        All devices will get access to this repository.

        Note that it is possible but not advised for production setups to embbed
        the device configuration as part of `my_factory_install`. This is the
        approach taken for `./demo-nixos-config`.

     3. `my_factory_secrets`: A private *git* repository containing the secrets
        that only the factory technicians / developers should have access to.

        The secrets found there can only be accessed by the factory technicians
        / developers through their respective [gnupg] identity.

     4. `my_device_secrets`: A private *git* repository containing the secrets
        each individual device should have access to.

        In this repository, one will find one sub store per device. The secrets
        in each device sub stores can only be accessed by the specific device
        and its factory devs/techs through their respective [gnupg] identities.

 2. Create its own specific version of `demo-nixos-config`.

    In `my_device_config`.

    This repository should contains the 2 following mandatory folders:

     1. `./device-type`:

        Contain a sub directory for each *device type* the specific factory is
        able to produce.

        Each of these sub directory should contain the following files:

         -  `nixos/configuration.nix`

            The nixos configuration for a device of this type. It should
            import at some point the `nixos/hardware-configuration.nix`
            file.

         -  `nixos/hardware-configuration.nix`

            The nixos hw configuration as generated by `nixos-generate-config`
            on this device.

     2. `./device`:

        Contain a sub directory for each specific devices by *device id*.

        Each of these sub directory will usually contain only a `device.json`
        which holds the specific device configuration.

        It is however possible to have a specific nixos configuration for
        a particular device in which case this sub directory will contain
        a `nixos/configuration.nix` file as well.

     3. `./release.nix`

        This is the nix function that given a device id (name of the directory
        under `./device`) will generate the nixos configuration for this
        particular device.


 3. Create its own specific version of `./scripts/factory-install` depending
    on `./scripts/factory-common-install`.

    Under `my_factory_install/scripts/factory-install`.

    These specific tools will be responsible for initializing the following
    state `*.yaml` files which are expected for this repos's tools to
    function properly:

     1. `my_factory_install/.factory-info.yaml`.
     2. `my_device_config/.current-device.yaml`

    The specific repository configuration should be specify through environment
    variables in `scripts/factory-install/enter-env.sh`.

    2 mandatory env var should be set there:

     1. `PKG_NIXOS_SF_FACTORY_COMMON_INSTALL_DEVICE_TYPE_FACTORY_INSTALL_DEFS_DIR`

        Should points to the root of the factory install device type
        definitions (e.g.: `my_factory_install/device-type`).

     2. `PKG_NIXOS_SF_FACTORY_COMMON_INSTALL_DEVICE_OS_CONFIG_REPO_DIR`

        Should points to the root of your local of `my_device_config`.

     3. `PKG_NIXOS_SF_FACTORY_COMMON_INSTALL_DEVICE_CONFIG_TYPE_DEFS_DIR`

        Should point to the location of the device configuration type defintions
        dir. (e.g.: `my_device_config/device-type`).

     4. `PKG_NIXOS_SF_FACTORY_COMMON_INSTALL_DEVICE_CONFIG_SSH_AUTH_DIR`

        Should point to a writable location in the device configuration (e.g.:
        `my_factory_install/device-ssh`) where the factory tools will
        be able to create / read and modify a set of files related to the
        allowed access to devices through ssh.

        This directory will be managed according to `nsf-ssh-auth`'s policy.

        See [nsf-ssh-auth - Readme](../.nix/pkgs/tools/admin/nsf-ssh-auth/README.md)
        for more details.

        You configuration will then be able to exploit this information
        to grant access to the public keys listed in the json file.

        TODO: Document how to integrate this with a device configuration.

        TODO: Document special setup to confer special ssh priviledges to
        factory users listed in the `factory-installed-by` array (member of the
        device state file).

        TODO: Document how it is also possible to setup a separate ssh
        authorization directory in a separate *core* repository and
        merging this directory with the factory install one.

        TODO: Document how it is possible to user the `authorized-on`
        directory to authorize some users and groups temporarily.


    It is recommended that the following helpers are provided under
    `./scripts/factory-install/bin`:

     -  `factory-state-init`: responsible to initialize the factory's
        `.factory-info.yaml` file.

     -  `device-state-init-new`: responsible to initialize a new device's
        `.current-device.yaml` file.

    The following helpers can optionally be provided as well:

     -  `factory-repos-update-dependencies`: responsible to clone / synchronize
        the repository on which `my_factory_install`.

     -  `factory-repos-update`: responsible to clone / synchronize all the
        repositories including `my_factory_install`.

     -  `factory-repos-init-mr-config`: responsible to create a `.mrconfig`
        in this project's top level folder (`my_factory_install/..`).

        This uses the [myrepos] tool to make it easier to work with multiple
        repositories.

        Note that one could instead decide to use [google-repo] tool instead
        to tackle the multiple repositories problem.

    And finally, a `my_factory_install/env.sh`
    helper script should be provided to quickly enter the factory install
    environment.

 4. For each supported *device type*, a `my_factory_install/device-type/my_device_type`
    script package should be defined.

    Replace `my_device_type` by your own *device type*. Note that it should match
    the *device type* used under `my_device_config/device-type`

    One can take this repos's `./device-type/virtual-box-vm` package as an baseline.

    This nix package is responsible for bringing the
    `hw-config-partition-and-format` helper when installed on the target device.

    `hw-config-partition-and-format` is simply the customized way a *device* of
    a particular *device type* gets partitioned and formated.


[gnupg]: https://gnupg.org/
[git]: https://git-scm.com/
[myrepos]: https://myrepos.branchable.com/
[google-repo]: https://gerrit.googlesource.com/git-repo/
